1. Some of the most notable applications of Kafka.

- Some of the real-time applications are: Netflix, Mozilla, Oracle

2. Features of Kafka Stream.

- Some best features of Kafka Stream are

a) Kafka Streams are highly scalable and fault-tolerant.
b) Kafka deploys to containers, VMs, bare metal, cloud.
c) We can say, Kafka streams are equally viable for small, medium, & large use cases.
c) Also, it is fully in integration with Kafka security.
d) Write standard Java applications.
e) Exactly-once processing semantics.
f) Moreover, there is no need of separate processing cluster.

3. What do you mean by Stream Processing in Kafka?

- The type of processing of data continuously, real-time,  concurrently, and in a record-by-record fashion is what
we call Kafka Stream processing.

4. What are the types of System tools?

- There are three types of System tools:

a) Kafka Migration Tool: It helps to migrate a broker from one version to another.

b) Mirror Maker: Mirror Maker tool helps to offer to mirror of one Kafka cluster to another.

c) Consumer Offset Checker: For the specified set of Topics as well as Consumer Group, it shows Topic, Partitions,
Owner.

5. What are Replication Tool and its types?

- For the purpose of stronger durability and higher availability,  replication tool is available here.
- Its types are −

. Create Topic Tool
. List Topic Tool
. Add Partition Tool

6. Explain some Kafka Streams real-time Use Cases.

a) The New York Times: This company uses it to store and distribute, in real-time, published content to the various
applications and systems that make it available to the readers.

Basically, it uses Apache Kafka and the Kafka Streams both.

b) Zalando: As an ESB (Enterprise Service Bus) as the leading online fashion retailer in Europe Zalando uses Kafka.

c) LINE: Basically, to communicate to one another LINE application uses Apache Kafka as a central data hub for
their services.

7. What are Guarantees provided by Kafka?

Ans. They are:

- The order will be same for both the Messages sent by a producer to a particular topic partition. That
- Moreover, the consumer instance sees records in the order in which they are stored in the log.
- Also, we can tolerate up to N-1 server failures, even without losing any records committed to the log.