1. What is the OSI reference model?
Answer: Open System Interconnection, the name itself suggests that it is a
        reference model that defines how applications can communicate with each
        other over a networking system.

It also helps to understand the relationship between networks and defines the
process of communication in a network.

2. What are the layers in OSI Reference Models? Describe each layer briefly?
Answer: Given below are the seven layers of OSI Reference Models:

a) Physical Layer (Layer 1): It converts data bits into electrical impulses or
radio signals.
Example: Ethernet.

b) Data Link Layer (Layer 2): At the Data Link layer, data packets are encoded
and decoded into bits and it provides a node to node data transfer. This layer
also detects the errors that occurred at Layer 1.

c) Network Layer (Layer 3): This layer transfers variable length data sequence
from one node to another node in the same network. This variable-length data
sequence is also known as “Datagrams”.

d) Transport Layer (Layer 4): It transfers data between nodes and also provides
acknowledgment of successful data transmission. It keeps track of transmission
and sends the segments again if the transmission fails.

e) Session Layer (Layer 5): This layer manages and controls the connections
between computers. It establishes, coordinates, exchange and terminates the
connections between local and remote applications.

f) Presentation Layer (Layer 6): It is also called as “Syntax Layer”. Layer 6
transforms the data into the form in which the application layer accepts.

g) Application Layer (Layer 7): This is the last layer of the OSI Reference
Model and is the one that is close to the end-user. Both end-user and
application layer interacts with the software application. This layer provides
services for email, file transfer, etc.

3. What is the difference between Hub, Switch, and Router?

4. Explain TCP/IP Model
Answer: The most widely used and available protocol is TCP/IP i.e.
        Transmission Control Protocol and Internet Protocol. TCP/IP specifies
        how data should be packaged, transmitted and routed in their end to end
        data communication.

Given below is a brief explanation of each layer:
Application Layer: This is the top layer in the TCP/IP model. It includes
processes that use the Transport Layer Protocol to transmit the data to their
destination. There are different Application Layer Protocols such as HTTP, FTP,
SMTP, SNMP protocols, etc.

Transport Layer: It receives the data from the Application Layer which is above
the Transport Layer. It acts as a backbone between the host's system connected
with each other and it mainly concerns about the transmission of data. TCP and
UDP are mainly used as Transport Layer protocols.

Network or Internet Layer: This layer sends the packets across the network.
Packets mainly contain source & destination IP addresses and actual data to be
transmitted.

Network Interface Layer: It is the lowest layer of the TCP/IP model. It
transfers the packets between different hosts. It includes encapsulation of IP
packets into frames, mapping IP addresses to physical hardware devices, etc.
