1. What is a Firewall?
Answer: Firewall is a network security system that is used to protect computer
        networks from unauthorized access. It prevents malicious access from
        outside to the computer network. A firewall can also be built to grant
        limited access to outside users.

The firewall consists of a hardware device, software program or a combined
configuration of both. All the messages that route through the firewall are
examined by specific security criteria and the messages which meet the criteria
are successfully traversed through the network or else those messages are blocked.

Firewalls can be installed just like any other computer software and later can
be customized as per the need and have some control over the access and security features.“

Windows Firewall” is an inbuilt Microsoft Windows application that comes along with the operating system.
This “Windows Firewall” also helps to prevent viruses, worms, etc.

2. What is DNS?
Answer: Domain Name Server (DNS), in a non-professional language and we can call it an Internet’s phone book.
All the public IP addresses and their hostnames are stored in the DNS and later it translates into a
corresponding IP address.

For a human being, it is easy to remember and recognize the domain name, however, the computer is a machine
that does not understand the human language and they only understand the language of IP addresses for data
transfer.

There is a “Central Registry” where all the domain names are stored and it gets updated on a periodic basis.
All Internet service providers and different host companies usually interact with this central registry to
get the updated DNS details.

For Example, When you type a website www.softwaretestinghelp.com, then your Internet service provider looks
for the DNS associated with this domain name and translates this website command into a machine language –
IP address – 151.144.210.59 (note that, this is the imaginary IP address and not the actual IP for the given
website) so that you will get redirected to the appropriate destination.

3. What is the difference between a Domain and a Workgroup?
Answer: In a computer network, different computers are organized in different methods and these methods
are – Domains and Workgroups. Usually, computers which run on the home network belong to a Workgroup.

However, computers that are running on an office network or any workplace network belong to the Domain.

