1. What is ContainerCreating pod?
A ContainerCreating pod is one that can be scheduled on a node but can’t start up properly.

2. What are federated clusters?
Federated clusters multiple clusters that are managed as a single cluster.

3. Define headless service
Headless service is defined as a service that uses IP address, but instead of load balancing, it returns of
associated pods.

4. Define Heapster in Kubernetes
A Heapster is a metrics collection and performance monitoring system for data that are collected by the Kublet.

5. What are the tools that are used for container monitoring?
a) Heapster
b) cAdvisor
c) Prometheus
d) InfluxDB
e) Grafana

6. What are the ways to provide API-Security on Kubernetes?
The ways to provide API-Security on Kubernetes are:
a) Using correct auth mode with API server authentication mode= Node.
b) Make kubeless that protects its API via authorization-mode=Webhook.
c) Ensure the kube-dashboard uses a restrictive RBAC (Role-Based Access Control) policy

7. What is the work of a kube-scheduler?
Kube-scheduler is the default scheduler for Kubernetes. It assigns nodes to newly created pods.

8. Why uses Kube-apiserver?
Kube-apiserver is an API server of Kubernetes that is used to configure and validate API objects, which include
services, controllers, etc. It provides the frontend to the cluster's shared region using which components
interact with each other.

9. What is the work of a kube-scheduler?
Kube-scheduler is the default scheduler for Kubernetes. It assigns nodes to newly created pods.

10. Define kubelet
The kubelet is a service agent which controls and maintains group pf pods by checking pod specification using
Kubernetes. The kubelet runs on each node and allows to communicate between a master node and a slave node.

11. Define OpenShift
OpenShift is a public cloud application development and hosting platform developed by Red Hat.
It offers automation for management so that developers can focus on writing the code.

12. What are the objectives of the replication controller?
The objectives of the replication controller are:
a) It is responsible for controlling and administering the pod lifecycle.
b) It monitors and verifies whether the allowed number of replicas are running or not.
c) The replication controller helps the user to check the pod status.
d) It enables to alter a pod. The user can drag its position the way interested in it.


13. List out some important Kubectl commands
The important Kubectl commands are:
a) kubectl annotate
b) kubectl cluster-info
c) kubectl attach
d) kubectl apply
e) kubectl config
f) kubectl autoscale
g) kubectl config current-context
h) kubectl config set.



