Concurrency can be defined as dealing with multiple things at once. You can
concurrently run several processes or threads on a machine with a single CPU
but you'll not be parallel when doing so. Concurrency allows us to create an
illusion of parallel execution even though the single CPU machine runs one
thread or process at a time.

Parallelism is when we execute multiple things at once. True parallelism can
only be achieved with multiple CPUs.

A machine with four cores and running one hundred processes is both parallel
and concurrent but mostly concurrent because it can only do four things at a
time.


Async.io:
---------
async.io stands for asynchronous input output and refers to a programming
paradigm which achieves high concurrency using a single thread or event loop.

The model is not novel to Python and is implemented in other languages and
frameworks too. Most prominent being JavaScript's NodeJS.

Example:
--------
To understand the concept behind async.io let's consider a restaurant with a
single waiter. Suddenly, three customers, Kohli, Amir and John show up.
The three of them take a varying amount of time to decide what to eat once they
receive the menu from the waiter. Let's assume Kohli takes 5 minutes, Amir 10
minutes and John 1 minute to decide. If the single waiter starts with Amir
first and takes his order in 10 minutes, next he serves Kohli and spends 5
minutes on noting down his order and finally spends 1 minute to know what John
wants to eat then in total, he spends 10 + 5 + 1 = 16 minutes to take down
their orders. However, notice in this sequence of events, John ends up waiting
15 minutes before the waiter gets to him, Kohli waits 10 minutes and Amir waits
0 minutes.

Now consider if the waiter knew the time each customer would take to decide. He
can start with John first, then get to Amir and finally to Kohli. This way each
customer would experience a 0 minute wait. An illusion of three waiters, one
dedicated to each customer is created even though there's only one. Lastly,
the total time it takes for the waiter to take all three orders is 10 minutes,
much less than the 16 minutes in the other scenario.

Folks with JavaScript background would find async.io very similar to how
NodeJS works. NodeJS under the hood has a single-threaded event loop that
serves all incoming requests.